README.md, before:

# Cape Functions

## Getting Started

To run these functions with Cape, you need to first install the [Cape CLI](https://github.com/capeprivacy/cli).

### Cape login

Log into Cape by running:
```
cape login
```

### Cape Deploy

Deploys a `function_dir` to Cape. Returns a `function_id`.

```
cape deploy <function_dir>
```

Example:
```
cape deploy echo
```

#### Deploying on Windows

If you are on Windows (or as an alternative to deploying the function as a directory) you can create a zip file and deploy it directly. This will fix issues you may run into with relative paths.

```
cape deploy <function_name>.zip
```

### Cape Run

Runs a cape function by `function_id` and `input_file`. Returns a `result`.

```
cape run <function_id> <input_file>
```

## Examples

### echo

A simple function that returns whatever you send it.

```
cape deploy echo
```

```
cape run 4b4961ef-1f04-4027-850a-3fd39a9501f2 -f input.echo.data
```

### isprime

```
cape deploy isprime
```

```
cape run 28028ae0-cf5c-47f8-8e8e-0da42b6dc142 -f input.isprime.data
```

### mobilenet

```
cape deploy mobilenet
```

```
cape run nEeVVSW5faK66prUihxhEw -f input.dog_segmentation.bmp
```

### np-stats
A simple example with numpy dependencies and using `serdio.lift_io` to handle automatic serialization/deserialization of Cape function input/outputs. All commands are run from the repo root directory.

Note the `numpy_serde.py` helper, which defines a custom encoder/decoder bundle that allows `serdio` to handle numpy arrays.

**Build the deployment package:**

```bash
mkdir np-stats-deployment
cp np-stats/app.py np-stats/numpy_serde.py np-stats-deployment/.
# Add serdio and numpy dependencies using docker
docker run -v `pwd`:/build -w /build --rm -it python:3.9-slim-bullseye pip install -r np-stats/requirements.txt --target np-stats-deployment/
```

**Deploy the function:**

Deploy with the CLI the function as follow:
```
cape deploy np-stats-deployment
```

**Run the function:**
You can run the function  with PyCape as follow:
```
export CAPE_FUNCTION_ID="<YOUR FUNCTION ID>"
export CAPE_FUNCTION_HASH="<YOUR FUNCTION HASH>"
python np-stats/run.py
```

### secure_search

Simulates a cybersecurity search function, where the IP addresses you are interested in need to remain private but the data/logs you are searching might be public. The function defines selectors (IP addresses of interest) as variables, and accepts a list of json objects containing IP addresses in a "hosts" element. It will return True or False for each selector that you are interested in, for each object in the json list. Optionally, you can use a user-supplied public key to encrypt the results prior to returning them to the caller.

```
cape deploy secure_search
```

```
cape run VRPYt53Z79JeQFGZZhE2nb -f input.search.data
```

Commit message:

Update Readme with pendulum example

README.md, after:

# Cape Functions

## Getting Started

To run these functions with Cape, you need to first install the [Cape CLI](https://github.com/capeprivacy/cli).

### Cape login

Log into Cape by running:
```
cape login
```

### Cape Deploy

Deploys a `function_dir` to Cape. Returns a `function_id`.

```
cape deploy <function_dir>
```

Example:
```
cape deploy echo
```

#### Deploying on Windows

If you are on Windows (or as an alternative to deploying the function as a directory) you can create a zip file and deploy it directly. This will fix issues you may run into with relative paths.

```
cape deploy <function_name>.zip
```

### Cape Run

Runs a cape function by `function_id` and `input_file`. Returns a `result`.

```
cape run <function_id> <input_file>
```

## Examples

### echo

A simple function that returns whatever you send it.

```
cape deploy echo
```

```
cape run 4b4961ef-1f04-4027-850a-3fd39a9501f2 -f input.echo.data
```

### isprime

```
cape deploy isprime
```

```
cape run 28028ae0-cf5c-47f8-8e8e-0da42b6dc142 -f input.isprime.data
```

### mobilenet

```
cape deploy mobilenet
```

```
cape run nEeVVSW5faK66prUihxhEw -f input.dog_segmentation.bmp
```

### pendulum
In this example, we show how to run a function requiring a dependency. The function simply returns the current time based on a specific timezone using the [Pendulum](https://pendulum.eustace.io/) library. The dependency is listed in `pendulum/requirements.txt`.

**Build the deployment package:**
```
# Create a deployment folder
mkdir pendulum-deployment
# Copy the cape function in the deployment folder
cp pendulum/app.py pendulum-deployment/.
# Add pendulum as dependencies using docker
docker run -v `pwd`:/build -w /build --rm -it python:3.9-slim-bullseye pip install -r pendulum/requirements.txt --target pendulum-deployment/
```
**Deploy the function:**

Deploy with the CLI the function as follow:
```bash
 cape deploy pendulum-deployment/
```

**Run the function:**
You can run the function with the cli as follow. Just make sure to use the function id returned by `cape deploy`.
```
cape run 2zbK8Fong64smU2GVuFMmS Europe/Paris 
```

### np-stats
A simple example with numpy dependencies and using `serdio.lift_io` to handle automatic serialization/deserialization of Cape function input/outputs. All commands are run from the repo root directory.

Note the `numpy_serde.py` helper, which defines a custom encoder/decoder bundle that allows `serdio` to handle numpy arrays.

**Build the deployment package:**

```bash
mkdir np-stats-deployment
cp np-stats/app.py np-stats/numpy_serde.py np-stats-deployment/.
# Add serdio and numpy dependencies using docker
docker run -v `pwd`:/build -w /build --rm -it python:3.9-slim-bullseye pip install -r np-stats/requirements.txt --target np-stats-deployment/
```

**Deploy the function:**

Deploy with the CLI the function as follow:
```
cape deploy np-stats-deployment
```

**Run the function:**
You can run the function with PyCape as follow:
```
export CAPE_FUNCTION_ID="<YOUR FUNCTION ID>"
export CAPE_FUNCTION_HASH="<YOUR FUNCTION HASH>"
python np-stats/run.py
```

### secure_search

Simulates a cybersecurity search function, where the IP addresses you are interested in need to remain private but the data/logs you are searching might be public. The function defines selectors (IP addresses of interest) as variables, and accepts a list of json objects containing IP addresses in a "hosts" element. It will return True or False for each selector that you are interested in, for each object in the json list. Optionally, you can use a user-supplied public key to encrypt the results prior to returning them to the caller.

```
cape deploy secure_search
```

```
cape run VRPYt53Z79JeQFGZZhE2nb -f input.search.data
```
